Now to only show that switch and the either/or setup on landscape mode,
we need to find out which mode we're in and then change what we're rendering down there based on that
mode. For that
here in the main.dart file in this build method, we can find out which mode we're in whenever build is
rerun with the help of media query
again.
There, you can get access to the context and then instead of accessing the size, there is an orientation
property.
Now we can now check whether that value here is equal to and now there's an enum orientation, written like
this, which is available thanks to that material.dart import you have up there and that enum either
is 0 or 1, it has two values, landscape and portrait.
So here we can check if that's equal to landscape and store the result in a variable which is final because
for each build run, we will never reassign it.
So here, this is a final local variable inside of that build method which I'll name isLandscape and
you can name it whatever you want. Now isLandscape will be a boolean in the end, which is true if we
are in landscape mode,
thanks to this comparison or false otherwise and now we can use that isLandscape variable which is
again recalculated for every build run, so whenever Flutter rebuilds the UI, we can use that in our user interface.
So there, we use it for example to render that row with the switch or not.
So here we can check if isLandscape is true and only if it is true, render that row and otherwise, don't
render anything.
Now actually, there is a little shortcut instead of or a nicer version of that, instead of using that
ternary expression, you can use an if statement in here, in that list and that's a relatively new feature
which is supported since Dart 2.2.2 which allows you to add an if statement here in that list
and there we can check if isLandscape and then after the if statement, you will have what should be
added to the list if that is true. If that is not true, this element will simply be left out in the list
and there will be no element added in this place of the overall list.
So if landscape is true, if isLandscape is true, we'll add a row,
otherwise we'll not add anything here which is exactly what I want. In this column, I only want to have
that row with the switch if we are in landscape mode, otherwise instead of that switch, nothing should be
added. Now for down here where we have that ternary expression, we can now use something similar. I only
have that either/or case if we are in landscape mode, otherwise I render both. For that to save some
code and don't duplicate too much code, I'll take that container with the transaction list which actually
never changes that widget configuration and store that in a variable as well.
So here, I'll add another variable which is my txListWidget and there I simply store my container
with the transaction list and I do that so that I can use it down there and if I then use it again down
there in another place, I only referred to that variable instead of copy and pasting all that code
and then if we would change anything about that widget or the way you use it here, you would have to
change it in multiple places. Now it's stored in a variable and you can always change it in that variable
here if you want to. So it's a little bit of code refactoring but now, we still have the same logic as
before, show chart is checked and then we show either that container or that list. The alternative is that
we want to show both. Hence I'll add another if check here and check
if we're not in landscape mode,
so if we are in portrait mode and now, again without curly braces, for this in array or in list if statement
you don't use curly braces,
so if we're not in landscape mode, I want to add this container here for the chart but with a height
of .3 because then and that's simply another element I add conditionally,
if we're still not in landscape mode,
then I'll add my txListWidget. So I check if we're not landscape mode, in which case I add my smaller chart
container
and if we're also not in the landscape mode, I also add that list widget. And now for this condition
down there, I'll check if we are in landscape mode
and only then, I will re-run this ternary expression and then show either my chart container
or that list widget. So that entire either/or code here is only executed if we are in landscape mode,
if we're not in landscape mode, we render the two individual widgets above each other and not either/or.
And now if we reload this application onto our device,
we see the switch here on landscape mode
but if I go to portrait mode, it disappears and you see we have both here, above each other but no switch.
If I go back to landscape mode and this rotates,
I am again back to the switch.
So this is now how we can also render different content based on the orientation if you need that behavior
in your app.